---
Our TEI project required us to use read “The Yellow Wallpaper” by Charlotte Perkins Stetson and breakdown sections and correct any mistakes present in her writing. The next step of this project was to break our section down on a Google Doc and find each paragraph, line break, em dash, italics, and mistakes present as to prepare it for proper coding. We then were required to use the coding platform Oxygen to properly markup and code this piece. Oxygen was a new program for me. I was under the impression that all coding was ‘markup’ so the new coding and new requirements for using Oxygen were confusing and a little stressful. When I began editing my section of “The Yellow Wallpaper” I used the markup codes I had learned previously but was saddened to see these did not work in Oxygen. This was the original picture of the piece. [Original Piece] https://hannahfulk.github.io/hannah/images/OriginalPiece.JPG)

Oxygen is a program that, I assume, one could do many different types of work and many different types of coding because there are many different tabs, sections, descriptions, even on the main page. From the first glace, Oxygen is extremely intimidating on account of all the “extra” information and coding options present on the main page. I did not fully understand how to operate Oxygen until we sat down in class and I was walked through step by step on how to properly use the program. 

After seeing the new coding format and seeing that what we were using Oxygen for was pretty simplistic and understandable I was put at ease and was able to efficiently and effectively complete the coding. I appreciate how Oxygen has suggestions for what you want to type pop up when you begin typing ‘<’. This allows me to see my options and see what should come in the next line and paragraph. I really enjoyed how Oxygen tells you if there is a mistake present by underlining the problem area and providing a short explanation of the mistake. This is helpful so we don’t have to consistently ask the professor if the formatting is correct. Once I saw the green box; I knew I had completed the coding properly and could move forward. 

This work has shown me the importance of proper coding because, without italics, bolded words, em dashes, and fixing mistakes, the message being conveyed would not be the same. “The Yellow Wallpaper” was a piece that required those extra coding elements to be effective. I feel the process was fairly simple and while it did take some time the final outcome shows the piece properly formatted with no errors. 

A confusing part of Oxygen for me is that I am not able to see the fully coded piece in the same structure as it is presented in the initial reading. I wish there was an adjustment option for how long the lines are and where the line breaks are present. When viewing the “author” final format I am able to see the correct coding and correct changes made but in a different format which makes me feel there may be a mistake present. However, it was explained that changing the format to fit the initial reading is not possible; so I am comforted by knowing that my piece would not be the only one with different formatting. 

I enjoyed reading “The Yellow Wallpaper” and coding using Oxygen and while I struggled in the beginning I definitely look forward to using Oxygen in the future. My favorite part of the program is the red underline that lets the writer know there is an error present. This helps the writer work independently and fix mistakes without additional guidance from the professor. The overall product of my section of “The Yellow Wallpaper” looks really nice and perfected from what it started as. This is the final piece coded on Oxygen. [Oxygen Piece] https://hannahfulk.github.io/hannah/images/OxygenPiece.JPG)
